# TimeOfDay_PerceptionStudy

In Hindustani classical music (HCM), there is a historic association between a raga and the time of day (prahar) that it should be performed at. We wanted to understand if prahar is purely a learned cultural aspect of the performance tradition, or whether it can be perceived. In addition, we wished to separate the effects of enculturation as well as musical training. There have been several studies investigating the relationship between ragas and their evoked emotions. However, although prahar is related to emotion conveyance (i.e., performing the raga within the prahar is believed to maximize its emotional impact), we were specifically interested in whether the musical excerpts would be associated with a particular time of day.  
Participants (N=71) were asked to select the time of the day they would most likely want to listen to each audio clip in a forced-alternative task. Based on a pilot study, we chose four maximally separate time intervals (morning, afternoon, evening, night). We aimed to also investigate whether Western and Indian listeners would associate the music of a Western modal system with a particular time of day to include a “true” cross-cultural aspect and add a scale-based control from a different musical system. Thus, 18 stimuli included clips from HCM, improvisations in Western modes, and Hindi film songs. We also recorded participants’ age, sleep cycle, familiarity with and training in Western and Indian (Hindustani, Carnatic) musical styles. Our analyses on the HCM suggest that while prahar is clearly an important part of the performance culture and history of HCM, it may not be an important perceptual phenomenon, even for those with significant training. Indeed, even listeners who self-identified as having 5-10 years of training were not significantly more likely to select the correct prahar. 
